Update `Modules` and `JavaScript Compatibility Mode` docs (#1489)
grafana/k6-docs: docs/sources/next/using-k6/javascript-compatibility-mode.md

---
title: JavaScript compatibility mode
menuTitle: JavaScript mode
excerpt: 'k6 supports running test scripts with different ECMAScript compatibility modes using --compatibility-mode'
_build:

>   list: false

Reviewer: This page is currently hidden from the navigation. Do we want to update this so users can find it more easily?

Author: No. We still want to be hidden as we don't recommend using this option. This page is referenced from other related pages.

weight: 19
---

# JavaScript compatibility mode

You can write k6 scripts in various ECMAScript versions:

- ES6+ JavaScript with ES modules (ESM).
- Plain old JavaScript (ES5.1+) with CommonJS modules.

k6 supports both module types and most ES6+ features in all k6 execution modes: local, distributed, and cloud.

> 

Reviewer 2: I would really prefer for us to have a warning/info/advice to *not* care/do/or further read about this in case they do not have problems with start up times. 

It really shouldn't be needed in like 99% of the cases and hopefully soon in none of the cases and will actually be a thing I would higly recommend people not to do. But this is after it is supported natively

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1489/commits/09e692537ac3c25488ca3049a95309ef1b0fa574

- removing `When executing large scripts, the k6 Babel transformation can slightly delay the startup time.`
- Already included: `Generally, this mode is not recommended as it offers minor benefits in reducing startup time.`

> Yet, to enable ES module support, k6 uses [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) internally to transform ESM to CommonJS. This process is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable ES module support, k6 uses [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) internally to transform ESM to CommonJS. The process is as follows:
```

![Babel transformation in k6](/media/docs/k6-oss/diagram-grafana-k6-babel-pipeline.png)

> The k6 Babel transformation may slightly delay the startup for executing large scripts. Thus, some users prefer to bundle their test code outside k6. For this reason, k6 offers two JavaScript Compatibility modes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When executing large scripts, the k6 Babel transformation can slightly delay the startup time. Because of that, some users prefer to bundle their test code outside k6. For this reason, k6 offers two JavaScript compatibility modes:
```

> - [Extended mode](#extended-mode): The default, supporting ESM and most ES6+ features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Extended mode](#extended-mode): The default option, supporting ESM and most ES6+ features.
```

> - [Base mode](#base-mode): Limited to plain old JavaScript (ES5.1) and CommonJS, excluding the Babel step.

Reviewer 2: I guess here it is important to note that:
1. Extented mode at this poitn only adds ESM support and sets `global` (node's global variable) to have the same value as `globalThis` (which is the specificaiton global variables)
2. base in practice support way more than ES5.1. Pretty sure anything that isn't ESM from ES6 is supported + class stuff from as late as ES2022. And also a ton of other small and not so small features.

Not certain if we want to try to convey this though as ... hopefully soon ESM will be supported without babel and we will have this working through out.

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1489/commits/8a367ab803b7364a29eba76e813c9fea17c79a4a

> soon ESM will be supported without babel

Then, we will update or remove this article.

> When running tests, you can change the mode through the `--compatibility-mode` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running tests, you can change the mode by using the `--compatibility-mode` option:
```

| Env                     | CLI                    | Code / Config file | Default      |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------ | ------------ |
| `K6_COMPATIBILITY_MODE` | `--compatibility-mode` | N/A                | `"extended"` |

## Extended mode

By default, k6 uses the `--compatibility-mode=extended` mode:

{{< code >}}

> ```default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ k6 run script.js
```

{{< /code >}}

As illustrated in the previous diagram, if k6 detects unsupported ES+ features while parsing the test script, it then transforms the script with Babel to polyfill the unsupported features.

This k6 Babel transformation enables the k6 JavaScript VM to execute the test.

## Base mode

{{< code >}}

```cli
$ k6 run --compatibility-mode=base script.js
```

```env
$ K6_COMPATIBILITY_MODE=base k6 run script.js
```

{{< /code >}}

> This mode omits the Babel transformation step, supporting only ES5.1+ code. You may want to enable this mode if your scripts are already written using only ES5.1 features, or were previously transformed by Babel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base mode omits the Babel transformation step, supporting only ES5.1+ code. You may want to enable this mode if your scripts are already written using only ES5.1 features or were previously transformed by Babel.
```

> In general, this mode is not recommended as it offers minor benefits in reducing startup time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, this mode is not recommended as it offers minor benefits in reducing startup time.
```
